[incomprehensible music]
Hello and welcome to another episode of "No Such Thing as a Fish" a weekly podcast
coming to you from the QI offices in Covent Garden.
My name is Dan Shriver.
I'm sitting with the three regular elves, it's Andy Murray, James Harkin, and Anna Chazinski
and once again, we have gathered around the microphones with our four favorite facts from
the last seven days and in no particular order, here we go.
Starting with you, Chazinski.
My fact this week is that Franz Kafka once convinced his entire family that Einstein's
theory of relativity was going to cure his tuberculosis.
How was that going to work?
It's a good question, I can't exactly tell you, but I can tell you how it was claimed
it was going to work.
I'm not sure I understand it, but essentially, the plan was that you would take a cruise,
according to this spoof article that he sent to his family, you take a cruise heading
east in the direction of the Earth's rotation and this would enlarge your body and that would
close the cavities and your lungs that were causing these problems and by enlarging your
body and gaining weight by taking this easterly cruise, then you'd be queued and he actually
said that there was a company in Prague that was fitting out hospital ships specifically
for this purpose.
Oh, unfortunately, I think the holes would get bigger as well.
That is one of the many flaws in the claim.
Is it in superman way?
He flies around the world and slows down the rotation.
No, he turns it backwards, he spins the world backwards, which reverses time, which stops
from his from lowest lane, from dying in a car crash.
That would work either way.
But would it also turn back the thing he had just saved because he saves the world first
and then he has to turn the Earth backwards to save the girl, but it would also undo his
own saving of the world in the first one, so he'd be in exactly the same.
And that's similar to the fact that I've wondered if when you sail back westward, is that going
to, I mean, is your TB going to return?
Do you then have to stay in China?
Does everyone with TB have to end up in China?
I think we keep traveling east, you're all right.
Okay, you have to keep going forever and ever.
Do we know their reaction, the family's reaction, when you were doing it as a joke?
They were really devastated, yeah.
That's not usually how good jokes end there.
That's how good parts of jokes always end, so someone being very upset, joke fail.
But Katka was amazing, wasn't it?
Katka is the most hilarious character.
He wrote letters obsessively all the time, which is great, so we've got this, and I think
as most people know, he hardly had anything published in his life.
I think he published 450 pages of work in his life, and on his deathbed.
And some officers was, wasn't it?
Yeah, some officers was.
A few stories.
A few stories, the trial wasn't, and then on his death, he said to his publisher, wrote him
that famous letter saying, "Make sure you burn everything I've written."
And obviously, instead of doing that, it was all published.
Yeah, so his publisher was called Max Brod, and Max Brod kept all of his papers, and then
was in a really weird, sort of, Menager Toire relationship with a woman called Esther Hoffer
and her husband Otto.
And when he died, he gave all of his, all of Kafka's papers to Esther Hoffer, who then gave
them to her daughter, and her daughter now lives in an apartment full of cats with all
of Kafka's papers in the corner, and basically, they think they're all going to just get demolished
by cat pee.
Wow.
And we'll never be able to read them.
So, everyone wants to get these Kafka papers so that we can read these amazing stories,
and she's like, "No, they're mine, and my cats are going to pee on them."
Is that why, because I think the British Library, or maybe the Bodleian, is keeps claiming that
they actually have the right to them, and there's some ambiguity in what Kafka said.
Yeah, everyone keeps trying to get them.
Yeah.
And everyone also keeps trying to get rid of the cats.
And so, they keep going in the council, and saying, "No, we're going to take these cats."
And every time they take, like, 20 cats away, another 20, a ride.
They just keep coming from like an ultimate cutlery.
They just love Kafka.
Kafka, ask.
Never mind.
Let's go.
Okay.
So, the whole burning, all of your work, post your death.
Why?
I think because, so it's actually estimated that he burned 90% of what he wrote during his
life, Kafka.
So, he only had 10% of what he wrote, but he was real perfectionist, and he hated himself.
He was really self-loathing, so I think he thought that nothing that he ever wrote
was good enough.
Yeah.
And, I mean, I guess maybe some of it's quite revealing, like, he wrote this letter to his father.
He went on holiday for two weeks, intending to write, and he ended up spending the entire
two weeks writing a letter to his father, this incredibly long letter, about everything
his father had done wrong, and his father sounds like a terrible person.
So, it was accusing him of, say, of doing stuff like his father would say, "No one's allowed
to speak at the table.
The table is for eating."
But his father would, incessantly speak at the table, "No one's allowed to swear, but
his father had the foulest mouth of anyone he knew."
Wow.
And he wrote him, they spent two weeks writing this letter that he never sent him.
Another letter that he wrote that I quite like is he wrote a 16-page letter asking for
a promotion when he worked at the Workers Accident and Insurance Company.
The thing about his father and the dinner table, Kafka liked to have the Diet Call Fletcherism,
you know, everyone.
So, that's where you just keep chewing and chewing and chewing.
Every mouthful, 100 times.
Yeah, until it goes.
Yeah, until, until basically there's nothing left in your mouth and it all turns into
motion.
What's the point of doing that?
By having larger things in your body, it makes you put them all white, whereas if you chew
it all, it makes it go through your body.
Because it'll be more broken down, won't it, by your saliva?
Yeah.
So, they used to, for instance, they used to have dinner parties like Fletcherism, dinner
parties where they would have a timer, so everyone would have a mouthful, and they would
have like a one-minute timer, and everyone would pat you, chew, chew, chew, chew.
And then they'd be like, Ding!
Okay, next mouthful, and then you do that.
Wow.
Come to party.
Yes.
7pm on the fourth.
Carriage is 9pm on the 12th.
Fletcher was really cool, actually.
He thought that by doing his particular style of diet, that you would only defecate once
every two weeks, and he said that it would smell like warm biscuits.
And also, apparently, carried around a sample of his own feces around to illustrate the
wonder.
Wow.
He also got really into mullers, he was into fads because he was really self-conscious about
his weight.
He was afraid of his own reflection because he thought he hated the fact that he was so ugly,
but he actually wasn't.
But he got really into mullers exercise fad, which was, I think, probably the first real big
exercise fad, this guy called Muller, telling you that exercise you should do every day.
It was like naked exercise.
That was the naked exercise, so he always appeared in a loincloth and said people should
just wear this at all.
And he would go skiing in some merits in a loincloth and stuff.
People were a bit skeptical about how beneficial this was to anyone's health, but he got ready,
he was devoted to that.
That's fantastic.
Yeah.
I was looking into, sort of, just famous authors in their quirky ways of writing.
So Kafka, obviously, just going from massively long letters.
It's really enjoyable to find out that everyone doesn't find writing as easy as you assume
that they did.
Some of the biggest authors, so Victor Hugo, he was so bad at writing and concentrating
and needing to be in that, you know, you always have that.
Oh, I need to get out of the room and do something more important.
He used to lock away all of his clothes, the void temptation of going outside.
Oh, wow.
Yeah, yes.
He often had a chauffeur who he'd give the clothes to, and said, "No account, give me these
clothes until I've done my work."
And he did eventually start wearing a shirt.
I think people would walk in and be like, "Oh, was that a Greek writer who shaved half of
his head?"
And the idea was that he would be too embarrassed to go out in public, and so he would stay in
and write.
Can't remember who that was.
Wow.
It's so nice.
These are all universally bad ideas.
Yeah.
It's the interesting thing for these great writers.
Yeah, because if you can't resist this temptation, you end up wandering streets stark naked
with half a head of hair, and you're in an asylum.
But the half of the hair head of hair is okay, because if you were desperate enough, you
could just make sure that you were facing one direction wherever you are.
As long as you kept that spot, no one would know.
And just on writing practices, I didn't know this about T.S. Eliot, who similarly to Kafka
left in strut, he didn't want his life written by anyone.
He left in strut because there should be no official biography of him.
And I think Peter Accroyd's just written one, but he basically wasn't allowed access to
any of T.S. Eliot's private letters or any of his life, so it's quite difficult.
Made it up.
Yeah, I think he just made it all up.
So maybe this is made up.
But no, T.S. Eliot used to put very pale green makeup on his face, and nobody knows
why.
So pale green makeup.
People have speculated it was to look like a corpse, although I don't know why he'd want
to do that.
Maybe it was just a fashion thing.
T.S. Eliot, who's he?
The green face guy.
Maybe he was just always insanely jealous.
Maybe it was that.
Oh yeah, just constantly.
What are his poems like?
I haven't read it.
Are they just like…
She's with him again.
Yeah.
Yep.
Do you see the green cat in Bulgaria this week, who's in the news?
No.
Yeah.
There's a green cat in Bulgaria.
It's like bright green, and everyone's like, well, how on earth could it be a bright
green cat?
Is it like some kind of science experiment gone wrong or something?
Apparently, it's like sleeping in the top of green paint.
Right.
How long did it take them to work that out?
Not so long.
Yeah, okay.
Vector Hugo.
Yeah.
I think this is right.
He kept a detail, an extremely detailed diary of all the women he's slept with.
Did he?
Yeah.
But it was extremely detailed.
It was like a spreadsheet with lots of different columns and lots of different…
That's kind of a woman's worst nightmare.
It's like the curator at the Natural History Museum.
He does that, doesn't he?
Every spoke.
No, did we speak?
Did we talk about this on the podcast?
He used to collect, after every sexual conquest, a single hair of pubic hair.
What?
Yeah, after…
So we should specify, this is not the current curator at the point where he's doing that.
No, no, no.
He just said the curator, dad.
No, just want to avoid any potential.
Oh, no, I'm illegal.
He's the one that we've spoken about before.
He was a curator.
I can't remember his name.
He used to collect just one sprig.
I seem to remember sprig of pubic hair, being the word used.
And he would file them in color and date, and he did a proper curators job on it.
So they were going through all his files after he died, and they came across this kind of
collection of pubic hair.
Can you visit that at the Natural History Museum?
It's not just play in the way with the…
It's real shame.
It should be, though, yeah.
It should.
That's very distressing.
Other writers in their weird writing habits, there was a writer who was huge American novelist
that sort of early 1900s, Thomas Clayton Wolf, who always used to write on a refrigerator
because he was so tall, which just seems like he's rubbing in people's faces.
What was the little magnet letters?
Yeah.
Took him a little time taking the novel out, the ages, yeah.
Imagine sending it to the publishers as well.
There were 300 fridges outside.
Yeah.
Kids rearranging it.
This novel just seems to say, "bum, bum, we..."
Just going back to Kafka, if we can.
Yes.
So there was a biography of Kafka written a couple of years ago by a guy called James Hors,
and he caused controversy because he wanted to talk about the pornography that Kafka had.
And apparently he was saying that Kafka was into hardcore porn, including images of
Hedgehog style creatures performing Felatio.
Hedgehog style creatures.
Yeah, so like creatures that look a bit like a Hedgehog, but like pocketbines maybe.
Oh, okay.
I'll just say pocketbines.
I don't know.
I think they're like half human, half hedgehog things.
So he was a furry, isn't that what a furry is?
Yeah.
Kind of.
I'm not sure he dressed up as them.
Okay.
But then the German scholars then said, "Well, this is obviously rubbish.
Author in Britain is just a prude and these hedgehog kind of things are just not pornography
at all.
They're just high art."
Yeah.
And he said that comparing those illustrations to hardcore porn is like comparing a poem
by Henrik Heiner with an advertising slogan form at Donald's.
So basically, this isn't hardcore.
You should see our hardcore.
Yeah.
Coming to the back room.
I'll show you something.
Yeah.
Since we're on the subject, I was reading a book about the history of London and it's
sort of London and vice, basically, and it had titles for 19th century pornography, which
were quite something.
So the spreeish spouter or flashcoves slap up reciter.
I mean, that is a good title, you know.
The jolly companion and the story of a dildo.
It sounds like it could almost be a girl's name.
You'd see it on the shelf.
I think, "Ah, the maiden of dildo."
Well, it might have been the story of a dildo, as in the story of Alan Dildo.
Yeah, that's exactly.
So I spoke about on a previous podcast just on this subject about monster erotica, you
guys remember?
So it's an amazing, I spent the weekend looking more into it.
I've downloaded number, but the interesting thing was, they're all on kiddo, you can get them.
There's this whole world of monster erotica, and you would figure that who the hell's
reading this?
No one's reading it.
Cass was reading it.
Um, it turns out some of the authors are making up to $30,000 a month, if this is an effort
in a cyber saying how I earn $30,000 a month working from home, that's, it's a con.
Okay.
Clearly, the whole 30,000 is coming out of Dan's bank account.
Um, Kafka used to laugh uncontrollably at his own jokes, which is weird.
Indeed.
Another thing which I think he would have found funny, because he had a really morbid sense
of humour, hence the, um, a spoof letter to his family convincing that he wasn't going to
die, which I don't know if I mentioned this, but he did die of TB, quite young, um, shortly
after sending them that spoof article, um, was that while he was writing the hunger artist,
which was a story about starvation, he was writing that as he was dying of TB and during
the writing of that about someone who can't eat his throat closed up and he stopped me
able to eat anything.
So it's sort of like his body was trying to give him the visceral experience of what
he was writing about.
Well, I used my first job as interviewing, um, women with acid reflux, um, for a market
research company.
And after four days of doing that, my boss and I, both doing the same interviews, we'd both
got the symptoms of acid reflux on the same night, coincidences and knives.
One more thing about letters, um, Gordon Brown apparently liked to write letters to people
in the X Factor, and he, he wrote basically for a few years while he, I think it was Wally's
Prime Minister.
He would write to people and say, oh, I thought you were very good.
I thought.
Remember this?
Yeah.
He wrote to one guy, Daniel Evans, a 38-year-old swimming pool cleaner and said, on a personal
note, can I say that the next time Simon says you are only supported by the over 60s, you
can tell him I disagree.
He was 57.
Wow.
Thanks, Gordon, really helping my case.
Yeah.
Was he really big, like a massive fan?
Apparently.
No, it sounds like some kind of sad political stunt that his peers, stupid PR advisors, told
him to do along with smiling like a maniac in order to encourage himself with people, doesn't
it?
Yeah.
I would like to think it was real.
Oh, I've got one more thing about the writing process.
Well, yeah.
Okay.
So, uh, there's a, an inventor who James, it turns out, has met, uh, called Dr. Yoshiro Nakumatsu,
which is--
Yeah, I met him.
Yep.
So you've met him.
He, okay, so he's responsible for a 3,300 inventions, according to him, James.
It might be the most prolific inventor of all time.
Yeah.
And he's in the floppy disk.
He had many of his greatest ideas when he was close to drowning, all right?
And when you say many, it means that, obviously, this is a guy who shouldn't be in a pool.
And so basically, he, uh, he also invented scooper apparatus, so he realized that, uh, in
order to have good ideas, or at least what works for him, is that he needs to be at the bottom
of a pool simulating the idea that he's about to drown.
And he had developed a, uh, one of his inventions, a non-dewater notepad, uh, so he'd start
jawning ideas down as he was on the brink of death and then swim back to the surface and
come out and go, "Flock me desk, morons!"
Okay, time for the fact number two, and that is Andrew Hunter Murray.
My fact this week is that dead geckos still stick to walls.
It's just pleasing, isn't it?
It's just a nice fact, um, and this was tested by a team of scientists who stuck a gecko,
what, they didn't stick a gecko on all, they just let it climb up one.
And then kill them and kill this.
Did they really?
That's how they did it?
Yeah, it was, um, it was induced death rather than waiting for the gecko to die of natural
causes, which would, to be fair, have slowed the experiment down a great deal.
Um, so it's, it's really interesting.
How come you don't see loads of dead geckos on the walls all the time and they're not
filling up all the walls?
You do.
This is a wall paper you see, that's actually real.
Lizard wallpapers that, yeah, you know, yeah, very fashionable, um, well, it lasts not forever,
it lasts until a while after they die, at least half an hour after they die, they can still
be there.
A question.
You know how we've been, because Andre Geim, uh, who is a professor, he, um, he came up
with, uh, the idea of a crafty, yeah, Nobel Prize winner for graphing, uh, it's going
to change the world.
He does these pride in idea experiments.
One of the things that he's invented in which he's trying to make better is, uh, a glove,
which acts like a gecko, it's called, um, gecko tape, I believe you can climb up a wall.
The only issue that they have with it is that unlike a gecko, it kind of, the little hairs,
which is what they are using.
So spider hairs and gecko hairs, that's the kind of technology that they're trying to harness.
Uh, it clogs up and so you start slipping and you start going down.
My question is, get a big enough gecko.
Why can't you create a glove where a live gecko is on the actual end of the glove and you climb
a wall with four geckos with four geckos attached to your hands and your feet?
There's no reason.
There's no reason at all.
Has anyone tried?
You're a reethical reason.
Well, hang on.
They're, they're baking them.
Climb walls and killing them while we don't know.
We're ready in dubious territory.
That's what scientific purposes not spider man purposes.
Um, would help.
This would be from military.
All right.
We should say how they can do it in the first place.
So, um, it's very, very clever.
Every square millimeter of a geckos foot contains 14,000 little hair like structures.
Um, and as they climb up the wall, they basically pushed these into contact with the wall and
they use something called the Vanderwiles force, which is so cool.
It basically disrupts the balance of electrons and protons in atoms.
So the hair, as it's pushed towards the wall, it pushes all the electrons of the first
atom of the wall to one end, right?
So it pushes them to the other end.
So that atom is next to the one next to it.
And it repels all the electrons to the other one because like forces repel.
That means that you've got an atom, uh, with all electrons at one end and an atom with all
protons at one end and they then are attracted to each other and stick together.
Yeah.
That in microcosm is how the gecko climbs up walls.
Wow.
And they can sport 20 times their own weight.
I think they inspire, uh, they've inspired a kind of superglue, the way it works.
Um, they've designed superglue based on that.
Uh, there's another, there is a type of superglue that's based on that and the thing that muscles
use.
So muscles will attach to rocks using a kind of, um, like, uh, cement and they've mixed that
kind of cement technology with the Vanderwiles technology of the geckos and they've got a
new adhesive called, um, it's called gecko or something like that, which is like supposed
to be a super duper amazing, yeah, but also works underwater.
So it could be used for, you know, like, um, elaster plus that won't go fall off in the bath
and stuff like that.
That would be very handy.
That would be really useful.
Yeah.
How many of they haven't got on that yet?
But I don't think the elaster plus industry would allow it.
No.
They make their money from people constantly losing them with the bath, but a new one out.
So it's like a conspiracy theory.
Yeah, you're going up against big plaster there.
Yeah.
I wonder if there's a technology that we've not yet harnessed in the, you know, when you,
uh, lick, uh, icicle, you try to stick to it.
Yeah.
Very good sticky little thing that we haven't really harnessed.
Do you think it's like 20 times your own weight?
Do you think you could hang off?
Have you seen Dom and Dom or when they're trying to, I have, yeah, I don't know if that they
did a lot of scientific research.
There's about five people trying to pull Jeff Daniel's tongue off that.
Okay.
It's really cool.
Again.
Yeah.
That wall is very cold.
Put your tongue in it.
We'll kill you and we'll see if you see.
Good work.
On geckos.
There was, did you guys remember that woman earlier on this year who claimed she'd given birth
to a gecko?
Oh, yes.
Yeah.
In Indonesia.
Um, and her and a midwife, uh, both reported it.
She thought she was going to give birth to a child and when it came out, turned out that, uh,
it was a lizard coated in mucus and blood apparently slithered out of the birth canal.
And I don't know why the midwife had to help with that.
Because it was quite easy.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Of course.
Yeah.
But then they became the target of this witch hunt in Indonesia because she was accused of
witchcraft.
The idea of witch hunt.
Yeah.
So why would you make that hoax?
Why would you pretend you'd give birth to a lizard?
It must be like the Kafka joke.
She thought this is going to go down a tree and then it got revealed.
Actually, that kind of backfired.
Yeah.
Geckos lick their own eyes to keep them, they don't, they can't blink.
So they just go around licking their own eyes.
Oh, yeah.
Do you know that?
Eyelids, they've got a sort of clear film over their eyes, but they don't have movable
eyelids, I believe.
All right.
You have three eyelids done.
I've always thought it looks a bit weird.
What would you mean?
Three eyelids on each eye.
Do I?
So the one that goes down, one goes up and you have another little one.
There's a little kind of flap of pink in the corner of your eye and that used is what
used to be your third eyelid and now it's only a little tiny flap.
That's very coincidental because Geckos have three eyes.
Do they?
Third eye, which is a little light sensing.
A pinial one.
Yeah, pinial eye.
Try to think of how to describe it, really.
What does pinial mean?
Okay.
So basically it is, they are cells which will, they will scent light and they're outgrowls
of the pinial gland, which is in the top of your head.
I think the idea is that they can then scent the change in light above them.
So if any kind of predators come from above, then they'll be able to scent them.
I think that's right.
Yeah.
And they've done tests on people where, and I don't think this is a pinial thing, but where
completely blind people can tell whether a light is on or not.
Do they hear someone click the switch?
No.
There's a type of gecko called the Morish gecko and they change.
They are delicious.
They change colour.
If you put them on a surface, but unlike a chameleon, they change colour to be the same
colour as a surface.
Are they genuinely camouflage themselves?
Yeah, exactly.
These geckos say you put them on a yellow surface, they'll turn yellow.
But if you blindfold them, they'll still turn yellow because it's not their eyes that
are getting their senses, it's some kind of light senses in the skin that are doing it.
That's amazing.
So if you put the blindfold around their kind of stomachs, then they won't be able to
see it and they won't be able to change it.
That's not a blindfold though, is it?
It's a...
Stomach fold?
Stomach fold, yeah.
Can they do patterns?
I...
Can you put them on a picture of Marilyn Monroe and have like that appear on a gecko?
Very sexy gecko.
You're fulfilling a long-standing fantasy of dance here, which has a gecko look like Marilyn
Monroe.
Yeah.
It's a monster.
Very much the Kafka of the office.
There was a gecko discovered in 1877, a British lieutenant colonel called R.H. Bedham
found it in India and then it disappeared and we just rediscovered it 135 years later.
We stumbled back upon it.
Same one.
The J.Pore ground gecko, very old, very bored, not any company for a long time.
I missed the colonel.
Okay.
Can I tell you something about adhesion?
Yeah.
I think you will like.
Okay.
This is in 2008, a campaigner against a third runway ad Heathrow attempted to glue himself
to Gordon Brown at a Downing Street reception.
And he's called dangloss.
That'd be terrible because you'd have to spend the whole Saturday night watching
the next factory.
So he was about to receive an award from the Prime Minister for his campaigning work and
then he stuck out his super glued hand and touched the Prime Minister's sleeve.
And Downing Street later said there was no stickiness of any significance.
But the amazing thing is he'd smuggle this in in his pants.
And he said afterwards, I just glued myself to him and after 20 seconds he tore my hand
off.
It really hurt.
He tore his hand off.
He's a tough man.
Wow.
He had to give a couple of tugs before it came away.
He was just grinning about it.
He didn't seem to take me seriously.
Later on, he was allowed to stay at number 10 for 40 minutes after this happened.
Wow.
And when he left the building, I'm quoting from the BBC article about it here.
He tried to glue himself to the gates of Downing Street but was prevented from doing so
by a police officer.
I didn't have much glue left by that point, he said.
OK, time for fact number three.
And that is James.
OK, my fact this week is that the active ingredient in the first ever homeopathy treatment
was the blood of Thomas Beckett.
Wow.
So this basically when Thomas Beckett died, he was basically a saint straight away as
soon as he died and everyone thought he was great.
And they had his blood as a relic.
But they only had a small amount of his blood so the way that they could give it to lots
of different people was to put a tiny drop in enormous vat of water and then take bits
of that water and give it to people and it supposedly would be able to cure everything.
Which as far as I'm concerned is pretty much homeopathy.
I agree.
Yeah.
And it's supposedly just a few years after he died from the time that they started doing
it to a few years after he hit something like 703 miracles, supposedly.
Yeah.
But that was over the whole, I think it was over a 10 year period.
And in just one year, a couple of years later, 100,000 people visited the, it's quite a
low hit rate.
It's quite a low hit rate.
But I found another report saying that it was you know, you would drink the water, this
homeopathic water that James mentioned.
And also there were cases where reported in which it was used for the magical detection
of thieves and even for extinguishing fires.
Which is the same as that.
Yeah, exactly.
It's a miracle.
The holy water.
Cut out this fire.
I was thirsty before and now I am not thirsty.
I was dirty before.
I was too hot before this magical substance.
Can I tell you about these just really quickly about those monks?
Yeah, please.
So one of them was called William of Canterbury of the two monks who was writing down the
things.
Because this was in Canterbury.
That's where he died, right?
That's where he was buried anyway.
Because he was the Archbishop and he was killed.
And that's part of Canterbury tales as well.
He is the journey.
Oh, to visit the end point is Thomas a Beckett.
Right.
Well, Thomas Beckett, not a Beckett, right?
That is a myth.
Thomas Beckett is a later edition.
He never really had the a.
It was the same with a Dildo.
If he was called Dildo, if he was on Twitter these days, he would be at Thomas Beckett.
Yep.
I always feel sorry for having the second in the Thomas Beckett incident.
Because he said, didn't he famously, well, people claim that he said, "Will no one rid me
of this turbulent priest or some other phrase like that?"
And that is the kind of thing you say when you're slightly pissed off with somebody and
what you're not asking your friends to do is actually go and brutally murder them.
Yeah.
I wonder if they came back.
Well, we did it.
He's like, you did what?
Did what?
Yeah.
Oh, my God, guys.
Simon Sharma reckons that that's not the right one.
No, I know.
That's a really neat phrase.
And the biographer at the time, Edward Grimm, wrote in Latin, and the translation is, what
miserable drones and traitors have I nourished and brought up in my household who let their
Lord be treated with such shameful contempt by a lone-born cleric, which is not catchy.
But actually, there's no way of, he's not saying they're going kill him, is he?
No.
Although he is.
It's even more ambiguous.
But he is actively saying that his, like, the people who work for him have a responsibility
to go and seek vengeance.
That's true.
He's saying, you're crap because you're lessing yourself.
Exactly.
And I bet he'd, they got told off of doing it.
It's one of those bosses, just never happy.
One of them had to come fight on the crusades for 14 years to say sorry.
Yeah.
Just to say sorry.
Oh, wow.
Well, Henry was, I think, whipped by 80 monks.
Yeah.
He asked for that, didn't he?
He requested it, not that he was asking for it.
Yeah.
He was like, he wanted to be penitent, so he asked to be whipped by these monks.
Wow.
And they just said, sure, that's not weird.
We'll do it.
It was more common at the time, yeah, to, uh, to be request for monks to whip you.
Yeah.
What if you were, yeah.
You make it sound weird now.
One thing I read a really peculiar thing about him, peculiar to me, but then clearly I find
things like being whipped by 80 monks peculiar, so maybe this is a very normal thing.
I read that on his death, the monks at Canterbury discovered that he wore a hair shirt and it was
infested with lice, these were under his vestments.
What's a hair shirt?
That is a special shirt made of very coarse animal hair that you put on under your normal
clothes, and it scourges and irritates you and it spurs you to keep you.
Oh, so it was, it wasn't like a nice comfort thing?
No.
It was.
Do you know where those?
What do you wear when you go to be whipped by 80 monks?
Thomas Beckett was voted the second worst Britain of the last thousand years.
Oh, yeah.
And a poll by BBC History magazine.
Who came first?
Jack the Ripper.
Wow, so that's quite harsh considering that he wasn't really a murderer.
Because I knew that everyone loved him as well.
Yeah, at the time.
He wasn't a murderer.
No.
There are lots of other murderers.
I'm surprised by Jack the Ripper.
What?
He was surprised by Jack the Ripper.
He voted the worst Britain.
Yeah.
The worst of all time.
Of all time.
Who would you go for?
I don't know, but like Jeremy Logson.
There are.
As a theory, he got his name Beckett from Beck, which means Beak, because he had quite a prominent
nose and that was maybe a family trait and that's where his family had got the surname
from.
It's just a theory.
Really?
That isn't a humanism, a bit Thomas Beakie.
When he was killed, he'd just got back from a six-year, I was going to say a six-year holiday.
He'd actually been axiled in fearing his life.
But still.
That's how he was marketing it to his friends.
So he was away for six-year because he was in fear of his life?
Yeah, he was.
He was right.
When he literally arrived back, he was killed.
He came back under an amnesty, because he had had a huge power struggle with the king.
And then he got back under an agreement and it was all going to be fine.
And then he started excommunicating a load of people who he'd specifically agreed he
wouldn't or the king had asked him not to.
Okay.
So that was the reason.
That he was killed.
Back on your word.
On Hommieopathy, the guy who came up with it, so and called it Hommieopathy, came with
the original theory for it, who was Hanuman.
He thought that coffee was the thing that caused, he went there a phase of the thing that
coffee caused huge numbers of diseases.
And he said the thing that was wrong with coffee and the reason you know it's bad is because
coffee drinking makes everything pleasurable.
And you know that in life, you're supposed to suffer as well as experience pleasure.
And you sort of get drunk on coffee and you enjoy everything too much.
And that's not how it's supposed to be.
So he says, even in the corporal functions, which in a natural state of health are accompanied
by rude and almost painful sensations, now operate with an astonishing facility and even
with a species of pleasure.
What is he referring to when he took that corporal?
It sounds a lot like he's referring to the fact that you've suddenly got chronic diarrhea
as soon as you have a coffee.
And it sounds to me like he was just a constipated man.
It sounds like he's got IBS.
Yeah, it does, isn't it?
Company by rude and painful sensations.
Yeah, it's IBS.
Yeah.
Good diagnosis.
So George Sick received Hommieopathy treatment when he was trying to get his speech
right.
So in the King's speech, he had that, but it wasn't in the movie.
So what did he have?
What did they give him a ground up word diluted heavily?
How did he?
Just a very short word, yeah, with lots of silence.
It was a medicine called hypericum and he was so appreciative of it that he named a race
horse after it.
Yeah.
So quite appreciative.
To name a child after it.
King Hypericum, probably best.
I saw it.
I was looking on a forum about just, I guess, these kind of miracle relics that are out there.
And someone was asking an interesting question, which is they used to, these relics used to
sort of perform or give miracles quite a sort of large volume in the early days.
And the question was, as time passes, do relics perform less miracles just because like the
Gecko on the wall after half an hour or four lot of has it got a period of, exactly, does
it have the ability to do it for so long?
And everyone obviously said no on the forum, but yeah, I just like that as a question.
I like, do they run out of steam?
Do they run out of steam?
Yeah.
Well, because I love, this is my favorite thing about this part of history is with these
kind of relics.
It does sound like everyone was a superhero back then and we've lost the ability to be
superheroes. I found a thing that James posted on QI, the forums years ago, I found it this
week.
This is really funny.
So this is someone super power from back in the day.
The Times reported that Sonora Anna Morano, the luminous woman of Perano, she suffered
from asthma.
And as a result of the asthma, admitted a blue glow from her breasts as she slept.
Many doctors came to witness the phenomenon, yeah, of course they did, yeah.
But apparently, I'm not sure if there's ever an answer to why she had, it's not super power.
Are we counting that as a superhero?
Well, I mean, you know, you know, what purpose is that set of luminous breast woman?
What if you lost in the, she paled up with Tia Celia in his green face, they go, you know,
join a circus?
If that's the Times, I guess that's not as old as I thought it was.
No, it's quite, I remember that, I don't remember it happening.
I wasn't posing as a doctor or anything.
No, but I remember reading about it.
I think I read it in 40 and Times, actually.
So it must have been only 10, in the last 10 years.
Yeah.
I'm not sure how real it was.
Blue boobs.
Just say.
Bloobs for short.
Blue burial is after they finished filming a film, they just superimposed blue breasts onto
everyone.
Okay, time for our final factor to show.
And that is my fact, and my fact this week is that in 2013, a group of people attempted
to crowdfund London's first ever UFO museum.
They needed a million dollars, but unfortunately, after 30 days of pushing and trying to raise
money, they only managed to get $370.
I mean, a million in 30 days is very ambitious, but also that is what, that's $10 a day they
managed to raise.
It's almost like the kind of people who are putting this together have unrealistic ideas,
based in reality.
They only got four pledges, really, from people, and someone, it felt like one of them was
their mum.
It was like, you know, like, when you set up this thing and it's like, oh, please support
my thing.
Yeah.
Always your parents come in first.
So, but I mean, it looked really interesting.
What was going to be in the UFO museum?
Well, I think it was going to be UK based UFO stuff, of which there is tons.
The biggest ever sighting of UFO, like a big UFO incident, was in the UK.
Yeah, but I mean, get the actual saucer, did we?
We don't have the UFOs.
Is it just a lot of mad people telling anecdotes sort of stuck in rooms in the museum, saying?
I saw this really scary thing in the sky.
Yeah.
What would be really great is that you go in and you don't see anything and you come in
and you go, we saw nothing in there.
And then they say, yeah, there's the men in black at the end who wipe your memory.
That's a really cheap way of making a brilliant idea.
So, there is a, there's not a UFO museum that I can find in existence, but you know what
I assume about.
Are there UFO museums?
Roswell.
It's one in Roswell.
Roswell one.
Oh, yeah.
What's in there?
It's all, I guess, I'll put like a dummy of an alien and that will become as famous as what
could be the real alien because enough people have seen it.
Yeah.
That's what they do.
So, there's a cryptozoology museum in Maine.
And it seems like they do the same thing.
They just keep making models of made up animals and then saying, isn't this amazing?
This is what a Yeti would look like if it was a thing.
Yeah.
But it does sound quite cool, the International Cryptozoology Museum in Portland.
They've got thousands of exhibits and like bits that are claiming to be bits of Barnum's
Fiji Mermaid.
I kind of want to test you on whether you know what all these made up words are.
Okay.
So, they're the Mermaid.
Yeah.
They're the Mermaid.
You can see a few of them in the British Museum.
So, these are the...
It's one at the Hanuman, I think.
Yeah.
So, these are the ones, it's a half monkey, half fish.
So, together.
Yeah.
They're just inside on the right hand side of the British Museum.
I think we've talked about them before.
Yeah.
We've talked about them in relation to P.T. Barnum, who had a load of them.
One of his other tricks was he said, "I have a cherry-colored cat in this bag."
And it was just sleeping in some cherry paint.
No, it was just a black cat.
And he said, "Some cherries are black."
That's a good one.
I kissed a girl by the barn made in the British Museum.
Sorry?
Just for a minute.
It's just the worst Katy Perry song I've ever heard.
Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha.
Ha, ha, ha, ha.
Ha, ha, ha.
So, Dan, do you know what this is?
The...
So, this museum contains, like, loads of hair samples of, like, the abominable snowman and
around a pendeck and Yahweh.
It's not a single pew from each one.
I think it is.
Ha, ha, ha.
Ha, ha.
Um, and there's also a letter from the actor Jimmy Stewart, who's one of my favourite actors.
So, this does point to me if it's true.
A letter from the actor Jimmy Stewart is on display as he is linked to the pangbok Yeti
hand mystery.
That hand.
Who are?
How is Jimmy Stewart linked to that?
There was a hand which supposedly belonged to Yeti.
But yeah, he was very obsessed with Yetis and he managed to get his hand on this hand.
On the hand.
Yeah.
There was a review of this museum.
And the guy said, quite frankly, we have more creepy things in my living room than they
have in this museum.
And then he gave it five stars.
Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha.
Another museum in America, the Cockroach Hall of Fame Museum, which is in Plano, Texas.
This was a guy called Michael Bowden, who was an exterminator.
And he has dead Cockroaches dressed as celebrities.
Have you got any examples?
Yes, Ross Perroach and David Letterroach, too.
I think he's also got a Liberochi, isn't he?
Oh, yeah.
And it's a little gold capes in a tiny piano.
So this guy's experience with the bizarre, I'm reading here, began in the 1980s when he held
a contest to find the biggest Cockroach in Dallas.
He later travelled the country judging Cockroach fashion contests as a promotional stunt for
an insecticide company.
Well, you wouldn't do it as anything else, would you?
It's a serious investigation.
I like the way that he's had that job, and he's turned it into something awesome, like
a museum.
About the insecticide company's a knotted, he sort of went a bit off-peast.
That's very funny.
Daniel, I have a question for you.
What shape was the first ever flying saucer?
Ooh.
There's a clue in the word saucer.
So it was round like a saucer?
No.
Ah.
The trick, too.
What they're trying.
The word saucer, why it was called flying saucer, was because it skipped across the sky like
a saucer.
Like, if you were a skimming saucer, that's why it got called that.
It was actually, um, crescent-shaped, like a boomerang.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Is that why we can't keep them, because they always go back to where they came from?
Oh, yes.
Why they're on the UFOs in the museum.
So do we know anything about the people who started this?
Are they the genuine believers in alien UFOs?
Yeah.
We'll give you the basic blurb, if they wrote.
Our team includes people of soundbind who wanted to go to a UFO museum one day close to home
in Paris, London, and Berlin, and realized that they had to travel thousands of miles to
visit such a place.
When you have to start off something by saying, "Where have soundbind?"
Yeah, obviously.
It's like...
And I think they think soundbind means they have voices in their head.
We already have access to material from a former UFO museum, but to open a new place
today that would look modern, one would need much more material and to purchase new equipment.
We've even found a few perfect locations to rent in London, but there are many other issues
to solve first.
We need your support to do more research, produce more information boards, mannequins, videos,
pictures, computers, etc.
We truly believe this is a unique, exciting project that would attract a lot of people and
we need your help and support to make this become a reality.
That was their basic blurb.
See.
No mention of what would be in there.
Have you had a kick-end?
No.
It's a side-project to Kickstarter, which a man has set up, which is all the projects on Kickstarter
which have made nothing.
Okay.
And they include the book "So Long Constipation", the toilet book.
Anyone who doesn't have two or more easily possible bowel movements a day will benefit from
reading So Long Constipation.
Do you see those adverts for Anti-Constipation Medicine which say "Instant overnight relief"?
No.
Really doesn't sound like London.
You might want to clean your sheets in the morning.
Total immediate relief.
Wherever you are.
Uncontrollable relief.
Everywhere.
Yeah.
Sorry.
So Long Constipation didn't get a single note, nothing.
Do you know what else didn't get a single pledge?
Is someone called Henrietta needed to raise $6,000 to fund her comedy show called "Please
Love Me"?
Oh my God.
Nothing.
Foodie.
Zero.
If you're at the Henrietta, we love you.
Another quite good idea that I might have donated to was the little eats.
Did you read that?
Which was a guy who invented a food that is dog food and human food.
Which, if you have a dog, there was-
You can eat dog food, can't you?
Yeah, and dogs can eat human food.
I don't know.
Can you eat dog food without really hating it?
Yeah.
No, probably not.
It's probably not tasty, but I think you can eat it.
Yeah.
I remember the thing about a supermarket-
Yeah, it was a fact that I'm going to get the numbers wrong, but it's something like there
is enough food in a supermarket for a single person to stay alive for 56 years, and it's
something like 67 years if you're willing to eat dog food.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
I eat the dog food early on, because you don't want your last year to be the worst year.
You'd save for the harrow bars.
Yeah.
That's a really good idea.
You get saved after like five years.
Why did you eat the dog food for you?
Yeah.
That'd be psychologically a lot of questions, kind of.
Can I just take it back to museums for a second?
Yeah.
Because I just did a search on the sort of weird museums of the world, and there's so many
great ones.
I don't know why they exist, but I'm so glad that they do.
The Giant Shoe Museum.
It's- I don't know if you count it as a museum.
It's a single exhibit wall.
Like a shoe.
No, it says here that to see the museum's collections, visitors must drop quarters into
a coin box and then look through stereoscope viewing slots that reveal views of a variety of
giant shoes, including size 37.
Wow.
That's American size though.
Yeah, but that was worn by the world's tallest man and the world's largest collection of giant
shoes, which is-
The world's tallest ever man, William Wadlow.
Yeah.
Was he called?
No, Robert Wadlow.
Yeah.
He was a shoe salesman.
That was his job.
He had to get really, really big shoes because they didn't make them that size.
He went to the company and they said, "Yeah, show you can have them for free if you go around
and sell them."
And he did.
But why would anyone else want to buy a size 37 shoes?
It was an example of what great worksmanship you have because you make such a big one and then
show that you can make little ones as well.
Oh, okay.
That's very cool.
So, Minnesota's Science Museum has the content of a former museum inside it, which was
called the Museum of Questionable Medical Devices, including the Prostate Gland Warmer,
the Vibratory Chair, and the Recto Rotor.
You just picked three at random, though.
France has four museums devoted to foie gras.
Wow.
I mean, they didn't want more than the first one, actually, but the people behind the museum
just kept stuffing them down their throats.
Are you?
That was pretty laden.
Okay.
That's it.
That's all of our facts.
Thanks so much for listening.
If you want to get in contact with any of us about the things that we've spoken about
over the course of this podcast, you can get us on our Twitter handles.
You can get us either on @Qipodcast or on our individual ones.
I am on @Sriberland.
James at H shaped Andy at Andrew Hunter M and Jazzinski.
You can email podcast@QI.com.
Yep.
Or you can also head over to no such thing as a fish.com and you can find all of our previous
episodes on there.
We'll be back again next week with another episode.
We'll see you then.
Good bye.
[Music]
(upbeat music)